W: Good evening listeners, this is BBC. Today, we are very delighted to have invited James Dobbins, US special representative for Afghanistan, to tell us the electoral process in Afghanistan currently. Well, James, how are you reading what's happening in Afghanistan at the moment?

女：各位听众晚上好，这里是英国广播公司。今天，我们非常高兴地邀请美国驻阿富汗特别代表詹姆斯·多宾斯向我们介绍阿富汗当前的选举进程。詹姆斯，你怎么看阿富汗当前的局面？
M: We're concerned about the trend in events. We have been concerned for some time that the electoral process hasn't been moving forward smoothly. We believe there needs to be a powerful and transparent audit of potentially dishonest ballots and we're sorry that hasn't moved forward quickly and substantially enough. We regret the preliminary announcement of results that was made yesterday. We think that was premature given that there are still a number of ballots that need to be examined and there's not yet a clear agreement on how best to do so. We do believe that...
男：我们关心的是事态的发展趋势。一段时间以来，我们一直担心选举进程没有顺利进行。我们认为，有必要对可能不诚实的选票进行有力透明的审计。我们很遗憾，这次审计不够迅速有力。我们对昨天宣布的初步结果感到遗憾。我们认为，因为仍有许多选票需要审查，而且目前还没有就审查的最佳方式达成明确的一致，这样做还为时过早。我们认为……
W: Forgive me for interrupting, James. Can I ask you why you think that announcement was made yesterday?
女：请原谅我打断你，詹姆斯。我能不能问一下，为什么你认为那个公告是昨天发布的？
M: I think it was made because the electoral institutions had previously set that date and they held to it despite advice to the contrary from the UN, from the United States, and from other voices within Afghanistan, and we think that was unfortunate.
男：我认为这是因为选举机构之前就确定了这个日期，尽管联合国和美国，以及阿富汗内部一些声音提出了反对意见，他们仍然坚持这一天发布，我们认为这很不幸。
W: Is there another reason that could be slightly more favorable, that is, they wanted to prepare the ground because if they just came out with one final result at the end of all this then it can be pretty likely that the loser, whoever it was going to be, was going to complain because they think it is unfair?
女：有没有另一个可能稍微有利一些的原因？也就是说，他们想要先做好铺垫，因为如果等到一切结束时给出最终结果，很可能无论输家是谁都会抱怨，认为这不公平。
M: I think it's our view that they didn't have a basis for preparing the ground because there's such a large number of votes that still need to be examined and that therefore any preliminary result might be more misleading than preparing the ground.
男：我认为我们的观点是，他们没有做铺垫的依据，因为还有这么多选票需要审查，而且这样任何初步结果都可能比做铺垫更容易误导人。
W: In terms now of where this goes, we've already heard some very strong, very emotional language from the camp of the man who appears to be on the losing side of all this, Dr. Abdullah Abdullah. What have you been saying to him in order to try and calm those feelings?
女：关于这件事的进展，我们已经听到了一些非常强烈、非常情绪化的言论，这些言论来自阿卜杜拉·阿卜杜拉博士，他所在的阵营似乎当前处于劣势一方。你怎样跟他聊天平复了这些情绪？
M: Well, we have heard talk about establishing a parallel presidency. We made clear that the United States and its partners are not in a position to support a divided Afghanistan. That any effort to establish a parallel presidency would make it impossible for the United States and its partners to continue their financial, economic and military support, and that the consequences for the country would be potentially quite terrible. Clearly, this is not something the Afghan population wants. It's not something they were voting for. And it's not something that they expect to happen, but it could be the consequences of an ill-considered action.
男：我们听人说过要设立并行总统制度。我们明确表示，美国及其伙伴不可能支持阿富汗分裂。如果建立并行总统制度，那么美国及其伙伴将不会继续对其提供财政、经济和军事支持，而且这对该国来说可能相当可怕。显然，这不是阿富汗人民想要的。这不是他们投票的原因。这并不是他们希望发生的事情，但行动如果欠考虑，就可能导致这样的后果。
This is the end of Part One of the interview.
这是对话的第一部分。
Questions 1 to 5 are based on what you have just heard.
根据听到的内容，回答第1到5题。
1. Which aspect of the election event is the interviewee most concerned about?
1.受访者最关心的是选举活动的哪一方面？
2. Why was the announcement made yesterday, according to the interviewee?
2.据受访者的说法，为什么昨天宣布这个消息？
3. According to the BBC interviewer, why did the electoral institutions want to prepare the ground?
3.据英国广播公司的采访者说，为什么选举机构想要做好铺垫？
4. What did the interviewee think of the BBC's reason of preparing the ground?
4.被采访者如何看待英国广播公司提出的做好铺垫的原因？
5. What is the interviewee's attitude towards establishing a parallel presidency?
5.受访者对建立并行总统制度的态度如何？

W: Let me turn it on to the man who may end up the winner, Mr. Ashraf Ghani. What pressure, if any, are you trying to bring on him to ensure that whatever happens he tried to include Abdullah Abdullah, or Abdullah Abdullah's people in any future government?

女：现在聊聊最终可能获胜的那个人，阿什拉夫·加尼先生。如果要施压，你会给他施加什么样的压力，以确保无论发生什么，他都尽量让阿卜杜拉·阿卜杜拉(Abdullah Abdullah)或阿卜杜拉·阿卜杜拉(Abdullah Abdullah)的人加入未来的政府？
M: We're not making any assumptions about who might be the winner or who might be the loser, and we think it's premature for anybody to be doing so. We've made clear to both candidates that two things need to happen. First of all, there needs to be a robust and transparent process for determining the winner, and there's still a good deal of work to be done there. And secondly, we believe that both candidates need to begin discussing the formation of a government that would have the support of all important components and elements within the country, a government of national unity that would ensure that all of the significant sectors of Afghan society feel included.
男：我们没有对谁赢谁输做出任何假设，我们认为任何人这样做都为时过早。我们已经向两位候选人明确表示，两件事情是必须的。第一，需要有一个健全透明的过程来决定谁是赢家，而这还有很多工作要做。第二，我们认为，两位候选人都需要开始讨论组建政府的问题，这个政府将得到阿富汗国内所有重要组成部分的支持，这个政府应该是全国统一的政府，确保阿富汗社会的所有重要部门都被包括在内。
W: You're saying it's all a bit hasty to say whether one side or the other has won or lost. It is difficult, is it not, to see this result being overturned? This is a flat margin of victory at the moment -- 56 percent to 44 percent. It would be extraordinary to see the result overturned in the space of a couple of weeks.
女：你的意思是说，现在就说某一方赢了还是输了有点草率。推翻当前这个结果，不是很困难吗？目前双方差距已经不小——56%对44%。如果在短短几周内就能看到结果被推翻，那将是非同寻常的。
M: I think both candidates have agreed that there was extensive fraud in the electoral process. Both candidates have agreed that the suspect ballots need to be audited. They haven't agreed on exactly how to go about that. We believe it's the responsibility of the electoral institutions to go ahead and conduct that kind of broad audit, whether or not the candidates have agreed on every precise element of the process, they will have to do it. And we believe until they've done so it's premature to be coming to any judgments.
男：我想两位候选人都认为选举过程中广泛存在舞弊行为。两位候选人都同意对可疑选票进行审计。他们还没有就具体怎么做达成一致。我们认为，选举机构有责任进行这种审计，无论候选人是否就选举过程的每一个细节达成一致，他们都必须这样做。我们相信，在他们给出最终结果之前，现在做出任何判断都为时过早。
W: It is worrying though, isn't it? I suppose it was all too predictable that democracy is an imperfect thing in Afghanistan and that undoubtedly there has been fraud, we've heard all sorts of reports that project there have been a measure of fraud, and whoever was going to lose in this election was going to say it's been by unfair means.
女：但这很令人担忧，不是吗？假设在阿富汗的民主尚不完美，无疑存在欺诈，我们听到各种各样的信息，那里的项目是一种欺诈手段，这次选举中无论是谁输，都会说选举采用了不正当手段。
M: I agree with you that Afghanistan is a relatively new democracy. The countries at this stage of democratic development often have difficulties of this sort. That there's not a tradition of good losers in societies at this level of political development. And in that sense, the problem we face is not unparalleled. There are other countries who have gone through similar difficulties. Nevertheless, the fact is that millions of Afghans went out and voted in the expectation that their vote would count. The numerous polls indicate that most Afghans are prepared to support either candidate as the victor. That most Afghans have said that they could accept the person they didn't vote for winning the election if that was the result. So while the problems we face are not unparalleled, the Afghan voters expect something better.
男：我同意你的观点，阿富汗是一个相对较新的民主国家。处于民主发展阶段的国家经常遇到这种困难。在这样一个政治发展水平的社会里，没有“输得起”的传统。从这个意义上说，我们面临的问题并不是前所未有的。其他一些国家也经历过类似的困难。然而，事实是，数以百万计的阿富汗人去投票，期望他们的选票会有价值。众多的民意调查显示，大多数阿富汗人准备支持其中一位候选人。大多数阿富汗人说，结果出来之后，他们可以接受自己没有投票的人。因此，尽管我们面临的问题并不是前所未有的，但阿富汗选民希望看到更好的结果。
W: James, I'm so grateful to you. I hugely appreciate you answering it and answering all the other questions as well.
女：詹姆斯，非常感激你。非常感谢你回答这个问题，以及所有其他问题。
M: Pleasure.
男：很高兴来到这里。
This is the end of Part Two of the interview.
对话的第二部分到此结束。
Questions 6 to 10 are based on what you have just heard.
根据听到的内容，回答第6题到第10题。
6. What did the interviewee think both candidates need to do?
6.受访者认为两位候选人都需要做什么？
7. What was the margin of victory at the time of the interview?
7.对话时的票数差是多少？
8. Who should be responsible for dealing with fraud in the election?
8.谁应负责处理选举中的舞弊行为？
9. What does the interviewee think of the problem in the Afghan election?
9.受访者对阿富汗选举中的问题有何看法？
10. What is the interview mainly about?
10.面试的主要内容是什么？